Extract from the life of St. Ultid.
A solitary wayfarer, whom God accompanied,
having abandoned all secular things,
kept on his way until he arrived at the valley
called Hodnant,
which not without reason means in Latin
prosperous.
About it stood no mountains or steep unevenness,
but a most fertile open plain.
There was a thick wood,
planted with diverse trees,
the crowded abode of wild beasts.
A pleasing river laved its two banks,
and wells intermixed with rills along their pleasing courses.
After he had rested and examined everything,
the delectable spot pleased him,
as the angel had indicated before in dreams.
Here is the woody grove,
a sunny spot to those who tarry there.
Here too about the plains is rich fertility.
Through the midst there runs a flowing stream of waters.
This, I know, may be said,
it is the most beautiful of places.